# About
Practice of LDA and other Topic Model based Collapsed Gibbs Sampling.

# todo  
- Normal LDA  
- Dynamic Topic Model   

## Implementation
- Michal Rosen-Zvi, Tom Griffiths, Mark Steyvers, Padhraic Smyth. The Author-Topic Model for Authors and Documents. UAI (2004)  
- Yi Fang, Luo Si, Naveen Somasundaram, Zhengtao Yu. Mining contrastive opinions on political texts using cross-perspective topic model. WSDM (2012)    
- Daniel Ramage, David Hall, Ramesh Nallapati, Christopher D. Manning. Labeled LDA: a supervised topic model for credit attribution in multi-labeled corpora. EMNLP (2009)   

## Requirements
- g++ ( >= 4.6)   
- boost   


## Author-Topic Model
### usage

    make author_topic
    ./author_topic input.tsv alpha t iter lim
    
### params
- input.tsv: input file(separated \t and :). Each line is document.  
  - format: author:author:...:author \t word:word:word ...  :word
- alpha: \alpha.  
  - \beta if fix(= 0.01)  
- t: # of topics.  
- iter: # of gibbs sampling iterations.  
- lim: limit of outputs.   

## Cross-Perspective Topic Model
### usage

    make cpt
    ./cpt per1_topic.tsv per1_opinion.tsv per2_topic.tsv per2_opinion.tsv alpha beta beta1 beta2 k iter lim
    
### params
- per1\_topic, per2\_topic: input topic file. Each line is document.  
  - format: word \t word ...  
- per1\_opinion, per2\_opinion: input opinion file. Each line is document.  
  - format: word \t word ...  
  - topic/opinion file must same size.  
- alpha: \alpha.  
- beta, beta1, beta2: \beta.   
- k: # of topics.  
- iter: # of sampling iterations.  
- lim: limit of outputs.  

## Labeled LDA
### usage

    make labeled_lda
    ./labeled_lda document_word_file document_label_file alpha iter lim

### params
- document\_word\_file: input doc-word file. Each line is document.  
  - format: document_name \t word \t word ...  
- document\_label_file: input doc-label file. Each line is document.  
  - format: document_name \t label\_1 \t label\_2 ...  
  - doc-word/doc-label file must same size.  
- alpha: \alpha.  
- iter: # of sampling iterations.  
- lim: limit of outputs.  


## Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization  
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by  
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,  
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the  
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to  
do so, all subject to the following:  
  
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including  
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,  
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and  
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative  
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by  
a source language processor.  
  
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR  
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,  
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT  
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE  
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER  
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  
